in all my travels I have never seen
anything like the lit plates the Surrey
women where there's no circumcision here
but girls above a certain age have their
lower incisors knocked out and their
bottom lip pierced and stretched until
it can hold a clay plate as a result
women speak slightly differently to men
no one is really sure why the Surrey do
this one theory is that it was started
to discourage slavers from stealing
their women and her neighbor dongle
as they are fragile age were you when
you had your first
[Music]
nataliya notches on the lap Ocwen doing
it though the origin of lit plates is
uncertain their function is not the size
of the plate determines a woman's value
in cows when she gets married
so because nepal is lit can hold a plate
this big bar Gullu had to give her
family 60 cows when they got married
only the suri am one other tribe in the
area where lip plates some girls are
beginning to realize just how unusual
the custom is and a few are now refusing
to know
[Music]
as the Surrey become more
outward-looking
I wonder how long lit plates were last
nonetheless many young girls in reggae
are seem eager to get there I often see
them with branches in their mouths
practicing for the day when their lips
will be stretched and they will be ready
for marriage
you